Vue serve was nice but now let me also show you something regarding the build process. Thus far,
we used the package.json file and there I said that the build command would build it for production.
And that is true, the question just is what does it build for production?
And as it turns out, we have three different build targets or three different ways of building that application
and with that, I'm not talking about the modes.
Instead when building a vue project or when building a vue component even, we can build it for
or as a vue app,
we can also build it as a vue library though which we could use in other apps if we're building our own
component library for example or
and that's really awesome,
we could build a web component. And a web component is now not a vue app
but it's a normal web component and in case you don't know what it is, it's like a custom html element
and that is just what vue components are, right?
But a custom html element which you can use outside of vue applications too
and that's the awesome thing,
you don't need to embed it into a root vue instance, you can dump it into a html file,
then you need to add two javascript imports because it still is driven by javascript behind the scenes
but it's registered as a standalone element to the browser.
This is an official browser API web components, so we can then build our vue components as reusable web
components which we can use in a react project, in an angular project or in a vanilla js project.
Let's have a look at this step by step,
the vue app is what we built thus far,
we run it with vue build --target app or just vue build,
it's the default, the default target is app.
This gives us a normal vue app bundle which is optimized, minified, where code splitting is automatically used
to lazy load routes where you configure them to be lazy loaded,
have a look at the routing section to learn how that worked
and it includes your code and the vue framework because it gives you an entire bundle which runs standalone
where you don't need to add any other imports.
Now for the library, you build that with vue build target lib, what this does is it gives you a project
which holds your code and that's of course typically use case would be a bunch of components to build
a vue component library,
it does not include the vue framework though,
so if you use that library, you need to ensure that you use it in a new vue application which then includes
your code which then includes that library and the vue framework,
so this is how that would work.
And for the web component we run it with vue build --target wc,
there also is an alternative command for code split web components which is a bit more advanced,
it's basically web components which are loaded lazily,
you find more details in the official docs but the functionality is similar.
And then you get a distributable web component and this is just a file, a javascript file which you
dump into any project, you will still need to import vue there but you won't need to create a route
vue instance,
you just can use your html tag thereafter.
So this also includes just your code, not vue and therefore you will need to import vue still but don't
create a full vue project.
Let me show you how that works and how we can utilize these features to build different things.
So back in the project, I want to show this at the example of this hello.vue file here, let's run vue
build and target hello.vue and then add --target app which is the default.
If I do that, it builds for production by default as you can see
and by the way, the more common way of using this command of course would be to use it on the entire
project with just the build command in package.json which takes your source folder and there, the main.js
file and vuex and so on,
I just want to show this command on this simple example of one file but typically, if you build an app,
you would take the whole project folder and not a single component.
But now I build an app based on that hello.vue file
and in the dist folder, I therefore get my javascript folder which holds all the code which includes
the vue framework as I said and also my component code which would be stored in here
and now we can serve that
and for that, we just need a http server because double clicking on the index.html file won't load
due to the javascript features being used.
You can install such a server with npm install -g to install it globally, http-server for example,
that's a simple node server which allows you to statically serve your web projects and on Mac
and Linux, you need to add sudo in front of that.
And with that installed, you can navigate into the dist folder with cd dist in your project folder and
then run http server in there and it will automatically pick up the index.html file and start
serving this on that URL, that is the URL I used before
so if I simply reload now, I see hello again but this is now not my development mode,
I did quit that server,
instead it really is my build project, it's my build and minified project and as you see, you can even build
a simple single vue component as a vue app.
Typically as I said though, you would of course build an entire project folder and therefore you would
just run npm run build to use that local cli service and the build command which automatically targets
the source folder and then the main.js file there.
Still nice to have,
now let's go out of the dist folder back to the root folder and let's try vue build
hello.vue
with target set to lib.
If I do that, it now builds a library, a library which we can use in other vue projects.
So in the dist folder, we therefore simply get a bunch of outputs which we could now distribute as a
npm package and for that, you should of course look how that works and how you really create a production
ready package
but in the end, this now can use your code.
It pulls in the vue framework itself here from a CDN because that is not included in the library.
Why is it not included by the way? Well to not include it twice and therefore bloat your final app code,
so here we then export vue separately and then here, it pulls in our library code and simply uses it.
So this is a nice demo,
it gives you a sense of a very simple app where it basically showcases what you had there.
In the end you would have a library which you could pull into other project, into other vue projects
and then import from that library,
well as you configure it basically, so as you also import from the vue library and so, you can
create libraries in an easier way with that.
And now let's have a look at the last build command, vue build
hello.vue with target wc.
If I hit enter here, I get an error
that we also must define a name here and that name is actually the tag which we will later be able to use.
So here, I will give this the --name configuration and name this my-greetings
and you should use a name which has a hyphen in there to not clash with default html tags.
So with that, it will build that web component for protection as it says and in the dist folder, you now
find these files and you also find a demo here and that demo is very simple,
it imports vue because you still need that dependency and then my-greeting.js,
you also have a minified version available for production or for distribution then
and my-greeting.js is really just in the end a normal web component which still relies on vue a bit
but it's not a complete vue app here. You don't create a vue instance anywhere,
you just used this in a normal html file as a normal html element and this could be a file which
also uses Angular for example.
So that's really awesome,
you can now use your vue components in any web project, browser support is something to consider for
that
and the official docs tell you more about that
but in the end, this is something which is extremely interesting already and will probably become more
interesting even in the future.